Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Computers and Chemical Engineering
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cace

Iteration-free cooperative distributed model predictive control through
multiparametric programming
Radhe S.T. Saini a , Parth R. Brahmbhatt b , Styliani Avraamidou b ,∗, Hari S. Ganesh a
a
b

,∗

Department of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar, Palaj, Gandhinagar, 382355, Gujarat, India
Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706, USA

ARTICLE

INFO

Keywords:
Iteration-free
Cooperative distributed control
Model predictive control
Multiparametric programming
Process control

ABSTRACT
Cooperative Distributed Model Predictive Control (DiMPC) architecture employs local MPC controllers to
control different subsystems, exchanging information with each other through an iterative procedure to
enhance overall control performance compared to the decentralized architecture. However, this method can
result in high communication between the controllers and computational costs. In this work, the amount
of information exchanged and the computational costs of DiMPC are reduced significantly by developing
novel iteration-free solution algorithms based on multiparametric (mp) programming. These algorithms replace
the iterative procedure with simultaneous solutions of explicit mpDiMPC control law functions. The reduced
communication among local controllers decreases system latency, which is crucial for real-time control
applications. The effectiveness of the proposed iteration-free mpDiMPC algorithms is demonstrated through
comprehensive numerical simulations involving groups of coupled linear subsystems, which are interconnected
through their inputs and a cooperative plant-wide cost function.

1. Introduction
Model Predictive Control (MPC) is a widely-implemented optimal
control technique that emerged from chemical plants, oil refineries,
and process industries in the late 1980s (Cutler and Ramaker, 1980;
Qin and Badgwell, 1997). Since its inception, many innovative and
improved versions of MPC have been developed and deployed for
various industrial process control systems (Qin and Badgwell, 1997;
Morari and Lee, 1999). MPC solves an optimal control problem (OCP)
by utilizing predictive models to calculate a sequence of control inputs
over a specified future time horizon at each sample time step in
a receding horizon manner. The OCP typically aims to minimize a
tracking objective over a future time horizon, subject to input, output,
equipment, and operational constraints (Rawlings et al., 2017; Maciejowski, 2002). Despite its ability to handle constraints and calculate
optimized inputs, control of large-scale systems presents significant
difficulties for MPC (Trodden and Maestre, 2017). As the complexity
of the plant structure increases, fetching feedback signals and applying
control signals to farther areas of the plant increases the communication burden. Moreover, the centralized MPC (CMPC) architecture,
in which the control inputs are calculated by solving the OCP using
the plantwide objective function at each sample time step, can result
in large computational overhead. This can impede the ability of the
controller to perform real-time calculations within one sample time

period determined by process dynamics and operating conditions. Alternatively, decentralized MPC (DeMPC) architecture, with its ability to
decouple the entire plant into a set of subsystems, reduces complexities.
However, such decoupling impedes DeMPC from capturing subsystem
interactions, thereby resulting in sub-optimal control performance and
instabilities (Cui and Jacobsen, 2002; Siljak, 1991).
Distributed MPC (DiMPC) architecture serves as a compromise between the centralized and the decentralized control architectures, balancing the relative advantages of both. DiMPC combines the decoupled
architecture of DeMPC with the ability to capture subsystem interactions of CMPC. DiMPC architecture can be further classified into
non-cooperative and cooperative variants (Negenborn and Maestre,
2014; Christofides et al., 2013; Avraamidou and Pistikopoulos, 2017;
Richards and How, 2007; Venkat et al., 2007). In non-cooperative
DiMPC, each local controller optimizes its control inputs based on local
information and the information received from other subsystems without considering the effects of its control actions on the overall system.
In contrast, in cooperative DiMPC, each local controller optimizes its
control inputs by considering not only local information but also the
effects of its control actions on the overall system performance, as
quantified by a global objective function (Farina and Scattolini, 2012;
Ferramosca et al., 2013; Stewart et al., 2010). Nevertheless, in both

∗ Corresponding authors.

E-mail addresses: avraamidou@wisc.edu (S. Avraamidou), hariganesh@iitgn.ac.in (H.S. Ganesh).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compchemeng.2025.109169
Received 20 December 2024; Received in revised form 31 March 2025; Accepted 1 May 2025
Available online 20 May 2025
0098-1354/© 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

Nomenclature
𝐔̄
𝐕̄ 𝑖
𝜃̄
𝜒
𝜖
R
𝟎

𝛺
𝛷𝑣
𝜙𝑣
𝜌𝑖
𝐔
𝐮
𝐔∗
𝐰
𝐱
𝜃
𝐴
𝐵
𝑏
𝑐
𝐶𝑅𝑣
𝐹
𝐺
𝐻
𝐻𝑡
𝑖, 𝑗
𝐽
𝑘
𝑀
𝑁𝑝
𝑛𝑢
𝑛𝑥
𝑛𝐶𝑅
𝑛𝑐
𝑛𝑢,𝑗
𝑛𝑥,𝑖
𝑃
𝑝
𝑝𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑄
𝑞

𝑅
𝑟

Converged control input vector after intermediate
iterations
Control input vector of all local model predictive
controllers except the 𝑖th controller
Vector of unknown parameters which considers only
states
State constraint set
Error tolerance for convergence
Set of real numbers
Zero vector
Input constraint set
Terminal state constraint set
Matrix that define the 𝑣th critical region
Vector that define the 𝑣th critical region
Weight for subsystem 𝑖 in the distributed model
predictive control optimal control problem objective
Control input decision vector
Input vector
Optimal control input decision vector
Weight for convex combination in the iterative
process
State vector
Vector of unknown (or uncertain) parameters
System matrix
Input matrix
Constraint vector in the multiparametric optimal
control problem
Constant term vector in the multiparametric optimal
control problem objective
𝑣th Critical region
Parameter matrix in the multiparametric optimal
control problem
Constraint matrix in the multiparametric optimal
control problem
Quadratic term matrix in the multiparametric optimal control problem objective
Linear term matrix in the multiparametric optimal
control problem objective
Subsystem indices
Objective function of model predictive control
optimal control problem
Sample time instant
Number of subsystems (or local model predictive
controllers)
Prediction horizon
Dimension of the input vector
Dimension of the state vector
Number of critical regions
Number of constraints in the multiparametric optimal control problem
Dimension of the input vector from the 𝑗th local
model predictive controller (or of the subsystem)
Dimension of the state vector of the 𝑖th subsystem
Terminal state weight matrix
Intermediate iteration index
Maximum number of intermediate iterations
State weight matrix
Sample time step-related index

Input weight matrix
Intermediate iteration index

non-cooperative and cooperative DiMPCs, the local control inputs are
exchanged among the local controllers, and the optimal solution is
found by performing intermediate iterations or solving the OCP several times to ideally converge to the solution at each sample time
step. Intermediate iterations refer to repetitive optimization (or OCP
solution) steps performed by each local controller during a sampling
time to refine its solution based on updated information exchanged
with other controllers. In cooperative DiMPC, all controllers account
for the effects of other controllers’ actions and iteratively work toward
a consensus that is agreed upon by all controllers. Therefore, only cooperative DiMPC results converge to the centralized case (the best case)
with the increase in the number of intermediate iterations (Stewart
et al., 2010; Ferramosca et al., 2013). The cooperative DiMPC will be
the focus of this work, and from now on, ‘DiMPC’ will refer to the
cooperative case. DiMPC has been successfully applied across diverse
domains, including energy systems (Wu et al., 2023), vehicle platooning (Feng et al., 2023), building energy management (Langner et al.,
2024), wind farm control (Lu et al., 2024), and irrigation systems (Zhu
et al., 2023), showcasing its versatility and effectiveness in optimizing
complex systems.
A major drawback of DiMPC, however, is the increased communication load and computational costs resulting from the need to solve multiple OCPs and exchange information among local controllers within
each sample time period. Hence, in practice, intermediate iterations
are terminated early or before converging to the solution according
to termination criteria, resulting in sub-optimal control performance.
Note that, in DiMPC, the overall system is decomposed into smaller
coupled subsystems and each local controller solves an OCP with a
plantwide objective function and local variables as decision variables
or control inputs. Although the OCPs of local controllers can be solved
in parallel, the computational costs pertaining to the large number of
intermediate iterations and the communication load to exchange local
control inputs through a shared communication network remain high,
usually at prohibitive levels.
Two different approaches to overcome the drawback of DiMPC have
been reported in the literature. The first approach involves improving
the rate of convergence of the intermediate iterations (Wang and
Yang, 2022). Fewer intermediate iterations to converge to the solution
reduces the computational cost. Consequently, even if iterations are
terminated prematurely due to time constraints, the solution obtained
at the last iteration is closer to the optimal value, resulting in improved control performance. The second approach involves reducing
the time of calculation of each intermediate iteration. This is achieved
by reformulating and solving the DiMPC OCP using multiparametric
(mp) programming (Pistikopoulos et al., 2002; Bemporad et al., 2002)
by also considering the information from other local controllers as
unknown parameters, thereby generating the control law offline as
affine functions of system parameters. This offline-generated control
law is expressed as a set of critical regions, each corresponding to
a distinct region in the parameter space. The offline generated expressions reduce online calculations (at each intermediate iteration)
to critical region search followed by algebraic function evaluation,
thereby reducing the computation time of the DiMPC controller (Saini
et al., 2023; Diangelakis et al., 2016; Kirubakaran et al., 2014). This
iterative mpDiMPC controller will be referred to as I-mpDiMPC from
now onward.
Although I-mpDiMPC helps reduce the computational costs, the
method may not significantly reduce the communication burden among
the local controllers. Reducing the communication burden significantly
2

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

would require the distributed control solution scheme to be iterationfree. A few studies have been performed by restricting the local controllers to exchange information only once per sample time step, thus
making the control scheme iteration-free. Camponogara et al. (2002)
studied a DiMPC controller that communicates the previous time step
control inputs of local controllers among themselves at each sample
time step. Similar restricted or approximate iteration-free approaches
were also studied in which each local controller sends its future control
inputs to the other local controllers at each sampling time (Chen et al.,
2016; Farina and Scattolini, 2011). In the aforementioned approximate
iteration-free methods, the local controllers use shared information
delayed by one sample time step, i.e., the optimal control inputs and
future predicted control inputs of all the local controllers obtained at
the previous time step, thereby not guaranteeing global solution and
stability of DiMPC and I-mpDiMPC.
The novelty of this work lies in developing state-of-the-art, iterationfree mpDiMPC algorithms to significantly improve the computational
cost and communication load compared to the DiMPC algorithm. Note
that the developed iteration-free algorithms, unlike the above-reviewed
approximate iteration-free methods, yield the exact solution of its
iterative counterpart in the limiting case but with only one information exchange per sample time. The novel algorithms aim to reduce
the number of information exchanges between the local controllers,
thereby offering efficiency gains and potential robustness benefits by
mitigating the latency issues from communication overhead. The idea
is to generate mp programming functions for all the local controllers
offline and then solve them simultaneously, instead of following an
iterative procedure, to obtain the optimal control inputs at each sample time instant. By exchanging information only once per sample
period, the proposed algorithms minimize communication delays and
are less susceptible to the effects of lost or corrupted data during
communication.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2,
the currently existing DiMPC control architecture and mp programming
are explained. In Section 3, three different versions of the developed
iteration-free mpDiMPC algorithms are presented. A set of case studies
using random plants is defined in Section 4. The results and discussion
are presented in Section 5 and conclusions are drawn in Section 6.

is generally formulated as:
min𝐽 (𝐱(𝑘), 𝐔(𝑘))
𝐔(𝑘)

s.t. 𝐱(𝑙 + 1|𝑘) = 𝐴𝐱(𝑙|𝑘) + 𝐵𝐮(𝑙|𝑘), ∀ 𝑙 ∈ I0∶𝑁𝑝 −1
𝐱(𝑙|𝑘) ∈ 𝜒 ∀ 𝑙 ∈ I1∶𝑁𝑝
𝐮(𝑙|𝑘) ∈  ∀ 𝑙 ∈ I0∶𝑁𝑝 −1
𝐱(0|𝑘) = 𝐱(𝑘)
where, the matrices 𝑄 and 𝑅 are the weight matrices for states and
control inputs, respectively, 𝑃 is the terminal state weight matrix, and
𝑁𝑝 is the prediction horizon. 𝐔(𝑘) = [𝐮(0|𝑘), 𝐮(1|𝑘), … , 𝐮(𝑁𝑝 − 1|𝑘)] is
the control input decision variable vector, where 𝑗|𝑘 represents 𝑗 time
steps ahead prediction from the current time step 𝑘. 𝜒, 𝛺, and  are
the bounding sets for the state vector, terminal state vector, and control
input vector, respectively. The index 𝑙 represents a specific time step
within the prediction horizon, ranging from 𝑙 = 0 (current time step) to
𝑙 = 𝑁𝑝 −1 (end of the prediction horizon). Solving equation (3) results in
the optimal decision vector 𝐔∗ (𝑘), among which, the first control input
𝐮∗ (𝑘) (= 𝐮(0|𝑘)) is implemented in the system. The aforementioned
procedure is repeated and the OCP is solved again at the next sample
time instant 𝑘 + 1 using the new state information vector 𝐱(𝑘 + 1).
2.2. mpMPC
The standard MPC described in Section 2.1 is also referred to as
online MPC because the OCP is solved at each sample time step 𝑘 to obtain the optimized control inputs. The same results can be obtained by
determining the explicit expressions of the control law offline through
the mp programming approach, reducing online calculations to point
location and function evaluation. Using the state-space model of the
system given by Eq. (1), the future states can be expressed as a function
of the current state 𝐱(𝑘) and future control inputs as:
𝐱(𝑙 + 1|𝑘) = 𝐴𝑙+1 𝐱(𝑘) +

𝐴𝑞 𝐵𝐮(𝑙 − 𝑞|𝑘)

(4)

where, 𝑞 is the sample time step-related index. In the standard MPC
OCP given by Eq. (3), the state vector 𝐱(𝑘) is usually the only uncertainty (unknown parameter) which becomes known online at each
sample time instant. However, variables such as previous control input
values, measured output data, and varying set points (in case the set
points have to be varied during operation) can also be treated as
unknown parameters if they are only made available online during the
controller’s deployment. These values, while measurable or provided
in real-time, may not be known offline or before the closed-loop
operation, making them dynamic inputs to the control system. Defining
the set of the unknown parameters (or parametric variables) as 𝜃 vector
(𝜃 = 𝐱(𝑘)) and substituting Eq. (4) in Eq. (3) to reformulate the OCP
into the following:

This section provides an overview of the formulation and solution
methods for MPC and DiMPC and their mp programming versions,
mpMPC and I-mpDiMPC, respectively.
Consider the plant dynamics of a system given by:

R 𝑛𝑥

𝑙
∑
𝑞=0

2. Background on MPC

(1)

𝐱(𝑘 + 1) = 𝐴𝐱(𝑘) + 𝐵𝐮(𝑘)

(3)

𝐱(𝑁𝑝 |𝑘) ∈ 𝛺

R𝑛𝑢

where, 𝐱 ∈
is the state vector, 𝐮 ∈
is the input vector,
𝐴 ∈ R𝑛𝑥 ×𝑛𝑥 is the system matrix, 𝐵 ∈ R𝑛𝑥 ×𝑛𝑢 is the input matrix, and k
is the sample time instant.

1
min 𝐔𝑇 𝐻𝐔 + (𝜃 𝑇 𝐻𝑡 + 𝑐)𝐔
𝐔 2
s.t. 𝐺𝐔 ≤ 𝑏 + 𝐹 𝜃

(5)

where, 𝐻 ∈ R𝑛𝑢 ×𝑛𝑢 , 𝐻𝑡 ∈ R𝑛𝑥 ×𝑛𝑢 , 𝑐 ∈ R𝑛𝑢 , 𝐺 ∈ R𝑛𝑐 ×𝑛𝑢 , 𝑏 ∈ R𝑛𝑐 , 𝐹 ∈
R𝑛𝑐 ×𝑛𝑥 , and 𝑛𝑐 is the number of constrains. The problem can be solved
through mp programming to express the optimal control inputs as explicit affine functions of vector 𝜃, which remain both valid and optimal
in a specific polyhedral space or critical region. The explicit (or mp
programming) solution to Eq. (5) can be expressed mathematically as:

2.1. MPC
In standard or online MPC, a single OCP whose decision variables
represent the future control inputs of the plant is solved at each sample
time step. The OCP with the objective function given by:
{ 𝑁𝑝 −1[
]
∑ 1
1
𝐽 (𝐱(𝑘), 𝐔(𝑘)) =
𝐱𝑇 (𝑗|𝑘)𝑄𝐱(𝑗|𝑘) + 𝐮𝑇 (𝑗|𝑘)𝑅𝐮(𝑗|𝑘)
2
2
𝑗=0
(2)
}
1 𝑇
+ 𝐱 (𝑁𝑝 |𝑘)𝑃 𝐱(𝑁𝑝 |𝑘)
2

𝐔∗ = 𝑓 𝑣 (𝜃) if 𝐶𝑅𝑣 ∶ 𝛷𝑣 𝜃 ≤ 𝜙𝑣
∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅

(6)

where, 𝑓 represents the affine function defined for each critical region
𝑣 with 𝛷 and 𝜙 as the corresponding inequality matrices and 𝑛𝐶𝑅 represents the total number of critical regions. During online deployment,
3

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

at a given time instant 𝑘, with the availability of 𝜃, the critical region
𝐶𝑅𝑣∗ which satisfies 𝛷𝑣∗ 𝜃 ≤ 𝜙𝑣∗ is identified and the corresponding
function 𝑓 𝑣∗ (𝜃) is evaluated to obtain the optimal control input vector
𝐔∗ (𝑘). The first element in 𝐔∗ (𝑘), i.e., 𝐮∗ (𝑘) (= 𝐮(0|𝑘)), is implemented
in the system. The aforementioned procedure is repeated and region
search followed by function evaluation is performed again at the next
time instant 𝑘 + 1, using the new information of the vector 𝜃. Readers
are encouraged to refer to the PAROC framework (Pistikopoulos et al.,
2015) for a more detailed explanation of developing mpMPC control
laws offline.

where, 𝜌𝑖 > 0 is the relative weight and 𝐔(𝑘) = [𝐔1 (𝑘), 𝐔2 (𝑘), … , 𝐔𝑀 (𝑘)].
This formulation assumes a cooperative plant-wide cost function involving coupled linear subsystems that share their control inputs and
objectives. This cooperation is essential for achieving centralized-like
performance in the limiting case in the proposed distributed MPC
frameworks.
Let 𝑝 be any positive integer representing an intermediate iteration. At any time step k, the OCP solved by every 𝑖th controller at
intermediate iteration 𝑝 is:
𝑖(𝑝) = min 𝐽 (𝐱(𝑘), 𝐔(𝑘))
(𝑝)

𝐔𝑖 (𝑘)

2.3. DiMPC

s.t. 𝐱(𝑙 + 1|𝑘) = 𝐴𝐱(𝑙|𝑘) +
In DiMPC, the plant is decomposed into a number of subsystems,
wherein the local subsystem model also considers the interaction dynamics among the subsystems. An array of local controllers calculates
the local control inputs. The local controllers exchange information
with each other and iteratively solve a plant-wide objective function to
determine the control inputs. At each control time step within the overall time span of closed-loop operation, the control inputs of the local
controllers are calculated through an iterative procedure by performing
intermediate iterations. At each intermediate iteration, every local
controller calculates its (intermediate) control inputs based on the local
information and the latest (intermediate) control input information
received from other local controllers. At the next intermediate iteration
step, the local controller typically uses the latest (intermediate) control
inputs of the other local controllers to calculate the (intermediate)
control inputs. The iterative procedure is repeated until a pre-defined
termination criterion is reached. Upon termination, the (intermediate)
control input of the latest intermediate iteration is implemented in the
plant as the control input at the particular sample time step. At the
next sample time step, the control inputs implemented in the plant are
treated as the latest (intermediate) control inputs to start the iterative
procedure to determine the control inputs of all the local controllers.
Consider the dynamics of the 𝑖th subsystem among a network of 𝑀
subsystems given by:
𝐱𝑖 (𝑘 + 1) = 𝐴𝑖 𝐱𝑖 (𝑘) +

𝑀
∑

𝐵𝑖,𝑗 𝐮𝑗 (𝑘)

∀𝑙 ∈ I0∶𝑁𝑝 −1
𝐱𝑡 (𝑙|𝑘) ∈ 𝜒𝑡 ∀ 𝑙 ∈ I1∶𝑁𝑝 , ∀ 𝑡 ∈ I1∶𝑀

𝐵𝑗 𝐮𝑗 (𝑘)

𝐮𝑖 (𝑙|𝑘) ∈ 𝑖 ∀ 𝑙 ∈ I0∶𝑁𝑝 −1
𝐱(0|𝑘) = 𝐱(𝑘),
𝐔𝑗 (𝑘) = 𝐔(𝑝−1)
(𝑘), ∀ 𝑗 ∈ I1∶𝑀∖𝑖
𝑗
where, I1∶𝑀∖𝑖 represents the set of all 𝑀 local controllers except the
𝑖th controller, i.e., {1, 2, … , 𝑖 − 1, 𝑖 + 1, … , 𝑀}. During the optimization
process, the control inputs of other local controllers 𝐔𝑗 (𝑘), ∀ 𝑗 ∈
I1∶𝑀∖𝑖 remain unchanged, as ensured by the last equality condition in
the aforementioned OCP. Once the optimal control inputs by all 𝑀
controllers at 𝑝th intermediate iteration is obtained, the next iterate is
calculated as a convex combination of the current and previous iterate
as follows:
𝐔(𝑝) (𝑘) = 𝐰𝐔(𝑝−1) (𝑘) + (1 − 𝐰)𝐔(𝑝) (𝑘)

(7)

𝐔(0) (𝑘) =

...,

(8)

}

𝐮𝑀 (1|𝑘 − 1), 𝐮𝑀 (2|𝑘 − 1), … , 𝐮𝑀 (𝑁𝑝 − 1|𝑘 − 1), 𝟎1×𝑛𝑢,𝑀 ,
(13)
The warm start is assembled using the optimal solution found at the
previous sample time step 𝑘 − 1. At any 𝑘th sample time step, the
DiMPC algorithm incorporated with Wegenstein’s approach is described
in Algorithm 1. At any 𝑘th sample time step, a warm start vector 𝐔̄ (1)
is assembled according to Eq. (13). At each intermediate iteration, the
OCP of each local controller defined in Eq. (11) is solved. The weight
vector 𝐰 is modified based on optimal results from current and previous
intermediate iterations. The optimal control inputs at each intermediate
iteration 𝑝 are saturated between control limits. Once the convergence
criteria are satisfied, the intermediate iterations are terminated and the
control input obtained at the latest 𝑝th iteration is implemented in the
system.

1
+ 𝐱𝑖𝑇 (𝑁𝑝 |𝑘)𝑃𝑖 𝐱𝑖 (𝑁𝑝 |𝑘)
2
where, 𝐔𝑖 (𝑘) = [𝐮𝑖 (0|𝑘), 𝐮𝑖 (1|𝑘), … , 𝐮𝑖 (𝑁𝑝 − 1|𝑘)] is the predicted input
trajectory. The plantwide objective function can be accumulated as:
𝜌𝑖 𝐽𝑖 (𝐱𝑖 (𝑘), 𝐔𝑖 (𝑘))

𝐮1 (1|𝑘 − 1), 𝐮1 (2|𝑘 − 1), … , 𝐮1 (𝑁𝑝 − 1|𝑘 − 1), 𝟎1×𝑛𝑢,1 ,
𝐮2 (1|𝑘 − 1), 𝐮2 (2|𝑘 − 1), … , 𝐮2 (𝑁𝑝 − 1|𝑘 − 1), 𝟎1×𝑛𝑢,2 ,

∑𝑀
where, 𝐱(𝑘) = [𝐱1 (𝑘), 𝐱2 (𝑘), … , 𝐱𝑀 (𝑘)] ∈ R𝑛𝑥 , 𝑛𝑥 =
𝑖=1 𝑛𝑥,𝑖 , 𝐴 =
𝑇
𝑇
𝑇
𝑇
𝑑𝑖𝑎𝑔(𝐴1 , 𝐴2 , … , 𝐴𝑀 ), and 𝐵𝑗 = [𝐵1,𝑗 , 𝐵2,𝑗 , … , 𝐵𝑀,𝑗 ] , where, 𝑑𝑖𝑎𝑔()
represents a block-diagonal matrix. Assume a local cost function of the
𝑖th local controller given by:
]
𝑁𝑝 −1[
∑ 1
1
𝐽𝑖 (𝐱𝑖 (𝑘), 𝐔𝑖 (𝑘)) =
𝐱𝑖𝑇 (𝑗|𝑘)𝑄𝑖 𝐱𝑖 (𝑗|𝑘) + 𝐮𝑇𝑖 (𝑗|𝑘)𝑅𝑖 𝐮𝑖 (𝑗|𝑘)
2
2
(9)
𝑗=0

𝑀
∑

(12)

The values of weight 𝐰 dictate the convergence abilities of the iterative
process. An adaptive algorithm to accelerate the convergence process
as described in Wegstein (1958) is used in this study. Essentially, the
method tries to manipulate 𝐰 at each iterative step using the results of
the previous time step. Note that 𝐰 = [𝑤1 , 𝑤2 , … , 𝑤𝑖 , … , 𝑤𝑚 ] contains
individual weights for each subsystem 𝑖 ∈ 1, 2, … , 𝑀, ensuring that
for each subsystem, 𝑤𝑖 and its complement (1 − 𝑤𝑖 ) sum to 1, where
𝑤𝑖 ∈ [0, 1]. At the 1st intermediate iteration, a warm start is used as
the initial condition as defined below:
{

𝑗=1

𝐽 (𝐱(𝑘), 𝐔(𝑘)) =

(11)

𝐱𝑡 (𝑁𝑝 |𝑘) ∈ 𝛺𝑡 ∀ 𝑡 ∈ I1∶𝑀

where, 𝐱𝑖 ∈ R𝑛𝑥,𝑖 , 𝐴𝑖 ∈ R𝑛𝑥,𝑖 ×𝑛𝑥,𝑖 , 𝐵𝑖,𝑗 ∈ R𝑛𝑥,𝑖 ×𝑛𝑢,𝑗 , and 𝐮𝑗 ∈ R𝑛𝑢,𝑗 .
The assumptions in this work pertain to the plant dynamics, where
coupling between subsystems is assumed to occur only through control
actions 𝐮𝑗 and not states 𝐱𝑖 . This simplification is adopted to streamline
the presentation of the iteration-free mpDiMPC methods but can be
extended to handle coupling involving both states and control actions,
if required, for more complex applications. The overall system can be
assembled as:
𝐱(𝑘 + 1) = 𝐴𝐱(𝑘) +

𝐵𝑗 𝐮𝑗 (𝑙|𝑘),

𝑗=1

𝑗=1

𝑀
∑

𝑀
∑

(10)

𝑖=1

4

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

Algorithm 1 DiMPC (or I-mpDiMPC) algorithm applying the Wegenstein’s approach for accelerated convergence

where, 𝑓𝑖 is an affine function evaluated for each critical region of every
𝑖th OCP. The algorithm for this approach is similar to that of Algorithm
1 for DiMPC or I-mpDiMPC, except that the optimal control input for
every 𝑖th controller is calculated from the offline-determined explicit
solutions.

(1)

Require: U(𝑘 − 1), x(𝑘), 𝜖 > 0, 𝑝𝑚𝑎𝑥 ≥ 0 ̄
U = U0 (𝑘) ⊳ Assemble using
U(𝑘 − 1) according to eq. (13)
𝑟=1
for 𝑝 = 1 to 𝑝𝑚𝑎𝑥 do
for 𝑖 = 1 to 𝑀 do
⊳ For DiMPC, solve eq. (11) with arguments x(𝑘), and
̄ (𝑝) received from other
the current control input information U
subsystems
⊳ For I-mpDiMPC, use pre-computed solutions given by
eq. (16)
U(𝑝+1) = arg(𝑖(𝑝) )
end for
if 𝑟 = 1 then
̄ (𝑝−1) = U
̄ (𝑝)
U
(𝑝)
(𝑝+1)
̄
U =U

3. Novel iteration-free mpDiMPC algorithms
To make the aforementioned I-mpDiMPC algorithm iteration-free,
it is further developed by employing a procedure that simultaneously
solves the offline-generated control law expressions of the local controllers during online deployment. In an mp programming solution of
an MPC OCP, the control inputs are linear functions of variables that
change online at each time step, such as system states, within critical
region spaces. This structure can be leveraged by formulating a system
of linear equations for different combinations of critical regions. The
simultaneous solution of this system of linear equations eliminates the
need for the critical region search procedure during online deployment,
which is typically performed at every sample time for conventional
mpMPC and intermediate iteration for the I-mpDiMPC. As a result,
the method requires only one instant of information exchange among
the local controllers of mpDiMPC at every sample time, making it
iteration-free (without any approximations). Three different iterationfree mpDiMPC algorithms, namely, IF-mpDiMPC, IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5,
and IF-mpDiMPC-V2, are developed, and their computational and control performance is studied. The iteration-free methods enable the
mpDiMPC controllers to calculate the control inputs with minimal communication in the distributed control network, improving the resilience
of the overall system to issues arising from excessive communication.

𝑟=2
else
⊳ Element wise vector manipulations
a = (U(𝑝+1) −U(𝑝) )∕( ̄U(𝑝) − ̄U(𝑝−1) )
w = a∕(a−1)
w = max(min(w, 𝑤𝑚𝑎𝑥 ), 𝑤𝑚𝑖𝑛 )
̄ (𝑝+1) = wU
̄ (𝑝) + (1 − w)U(𝑝+1)
U
(𝑝−1)
(𝑝)
̄
̄
U
=U
̄ (𝑝) = U
̄ (𝑝+1)
U
end if
U(𝑝) = U(𝑝+1)
̄ (𝑝) = max(min(U
̄ (𝑝) , U ), U )
U
𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑚𝑖𝑛
(𝑝)
̄
Transmit U to all interconnected systems
̄ (𝑝) − U
̄ (𝑝−1) | < 𝜖) then
if all(|U
break out of for loop
end if
𝑝=𝑝+1
end for
̄ (𝑝) ⊳ Optimal or best possible control solution at time step
U∗ (𝑘) = U
k

3.1. IF-mpDiMPC
In the first method, i.e., IF-mpDiMPC, the optimal control inputs at
each sample time step are determined by simultaneously solving the
explicitly generated affine functions of the control law for all the local
controllers in the network. The developed algorithm is explained in
detail in this subsection.
For a local IF-mpDiMPC controller 𝑖, among other unknown parameters, 𝜃𝑖 will also contain control input information of all other local
controllers. Splitting the parametric vector 𝜃𝑖 as:
[
]
𝜃𝑖 = 𝐱(𝑘) , 𝐔1 , 𝐔2 , … , 𝐔𝑖−1 , 𝐔𝑖+1 , … 𝐔𝑀
(17)
⏟⏟⏟ ⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟

2.4. I-mpDiMPC
Similar to the solution method described in Section 2.3, an mp
programming version of DiMPC can be developed as follows. Using the
overall system model (see Eq. (8)), all future states can be expressed as
a function of current state 𝐱(𝑘) and future control actions as:

∑
𝑙

𝐱(𝑙 + 1|𝑘) = 𝐴𝑙+1 𝐱(𝑘) +

𝑞=0

𝐴𝑞

𝑀
∑

𝐵𝑗 𝐮𝑗 (𝑙 − 𝑞|𝑘)

𝜃̄

where, 𝐕̄ 𝑖 is a subset of 𝐔 that includes the control inputs for all local
controllers except the 𝑖th one, i.e., [𝐔1 , … , 𝐔𝑖−1 , 𝐔𝑖+1 , … , 𝐔𝑀 ], and 𝜃̄ is
the remaining unknown parameters. In this study, 𝜃̄ = 𝐱(𝑘). Substituting
𝜃𝑖 in Eq. (16) yields the expression of the control law given by:

(14)

𝑗=1

̄ 𝐕̄ 𝑖 ) if 𝐶𝑅𝑣 ∶ 𝛷𝑣 𝜃̄ + 𝛷𝑣 𝐕̄ 𝑖 ≤ 𝜙𝑣
𝐔𝑖 = 𝑓𝑖𝑣 (𝜃,
𝑖
𝑖
𝑖,1
𝑖,2

For every 𝑖th local controller, control actions of all other local controllers 𝐔𝑗 ∀ 𝑗 ∈ I1∶𝑀∖𝑖 are treated as unknown parameters along with
the state vector 𝐱(𝑘). Grouping them in a single unknown parametric
vector as 𝜃𝑖 = [𝐱(𝑘), 𝐔1 , 𝐔2 , … , 𝐔𝑖−1 , 𝐔𝑖+1 , … , 𝐔𝑀 ], substituting Eq. (14)
in Eq. (11), and rearranging results in:
𝐔𝑖

1 𝑇
𝐔 𝐻 𝐔 + (𝜃𝑖𝑇 𝐻𝑡,𝑖 + 𝑐𝑖 )𝐔𝑖
2 𝑖 𝑖 𝑖

s.t

𝐺𝑖 𝐔𝑖 ≤ 𝑏𝑖 + 𝐹𝑖 𝜃𝑖

𝑖(𝑝) (𝜃𝑖 ) = min

(18)
∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑖
[
]
𝑣
𝛷𝑖,1
𝟎
where, 𝛷𝑖𝑣 =
is a block-diagonal matrix. Similarly, mp
𝑣
𝟎
𝛷𝑖,2
programming solutions for all the 𝑀 local controllers can be determined and the explicit expressions of the control law can be assembled
as given below:

(15)

𝑣 𝜃̄ + 𝛷𝑣 𝐕
̄ ≤ 𝜙𝑣
𝐔1 = 𝑓1𝑣 ( ̄𝜃, 𝐕̄ 1 ) if 𝐶𝑅𝑣1 ∶ 𝛷1,1
1
1,2 1
1
∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,1
̄ 𝐕̄ 2 ) if 𝐶𝑅𝑣 ∶ 𝛷𝑣 𝜃̄2 + 𝛷𝑣 𝐕̄ 2 ≤ 𝜙𝑣
𝐔2 = 𝑓2𝑣 (𝜃,
2
2,1
2,2
2
∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,2
⋮
𝑣 (𝜃,
̄ 𝐕̄ 𝑀 ) if 𝐶𝑅𝑣 ∶ 𝛷𝑣 𝜃̄𝑀 + 𝛷𝑣 𝐕̄ 𝑀 ≤ 𝜙𝑣
𝐔𝑀 = 𝑓𝑀
𝑀
𝑀
𝑀,1
𝑖,2
∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑀

The above problem can be solved through mp programming to determine the optimal control inputs as explicit affine functions of vector
𝜃𝑖 , which remain both valid and optimal in a specific polyhedral space,
termed as critical region. The mp programming solution to Eq. (15) is:
𝑣
𝑣
𝑣
𝑣
𝐔(𝑝)
𝑖 = 𝑓𝑖 (𝜃𝑖 ) if 𝐶𝑅𝑖 ∶ 𝛷𝑖 𝜃𝑖 ≤ 𝜙𝑖

∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑖

𝐕̄ 𝑖

(16)
5

(19)

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

By considering 𝐔 as 𝐕̄ 𝑖 and 𝐔𝑖 , through appropriate matrix manipulations, the aforementioned equation can be expressed in terms of 𝐔
as:
𝐔 = 𝑔 𝑣 ( ̄𝜃) if 𝐶𝑅𝑣 ∶ 𝛷𝑣 𝜃̄1 + 𝛷𝑣 𝐕̄ 1 ≤ 𝜙𝑣
1

1

1,1

1,2

3.2. IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5
In the second method, i.e., IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5, to reduce the computation time for IF-mpDiMPC, the number of critical regions that have
to be considered for simultaneous solution is reduced by performing
feasibility checks on the inequality constraints of the critical regions.
The developed algorithm is explained in detail in this subsection.
Consider the explicit solution of the local controller 1 among all 𝑀
controllers, i.e., the first equation in Eq. (20):

1

∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,1
̄ if 𝐶𝑅𝑣 ∶ 𝛷𝑣 𝜃̄2 + 𝛷𝑣 𝐕̄ 2 ≤ 𝜙𝑣
𝐔 = 𝑔2𝑣 (𝜃)
2
2,1
2,2
2
∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,2
⋮
𝑣 (̄
𝑣 𝜃̄ + 𝛷𝑣 𝐕
̄ ≤ 𝜙𝑣
𝐔 = 𝑔𝑀
𝜃) if 𝐶𝑅𝑣𝑀 ∶ 𝛷𝑀,1
𝑀
𝑀
𝑖,2 𝑀
∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑀

(20)

𝑣 𝜃̄ + 𝛷𝑣 𝐕
̄ ≤ 𝜙𝑣
𝐔 = 𝑔1𝑣 ( ̄𝜃) if 𝐶𝑅𝑣1 ∶ 𝛷1,1
1
1,2 1
1
∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,1

The affine functions of the control law expressions result in formu∑
lating 𝑁𝑝 𝑀
𝑖=1 𝑛𝑢,𝑖 equations to evaluate same number of unknowns
and therefore can be solved simultaneously (instead of the iterative
procedure) to yield the final optimal control vector 𝐔∗ (𝑘). Note that
the unknown parametric vector 𝜃̄ consists of a known state vector that
is measured or obtained from measured output variables. After all the
subsystem states are known, a system of linear equations with only
control inputs as variables given by Eq. (20) can be solved without the
need to exchange current or previous control inputs, thereby requiring
only one communication step. Since 𝐱(𝑘) changes at each time step, the
system of linear equations in Eq. (20) must be solved at every time step
to determine the optimal control action U, which is a crucial aspect of
the IF-mpDiMPC method. The pseudo-code to implement IF-mpDiMPC
is provided in Algorithm 2.

(21)

Representing the expressions of the critical region inequalities as:
𝑣 𝐕
̄ 1 ≤ 𝜙𝑣 − 𝛷𝑣 𝜃̄1
𝐔 = 𝑔1𝑣 ( ̄𝜃) if 𝐶𝑅𝑣1 ∶ 𝛷1,2
1
1,1
∀ 𝑣 = 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑛𝐶𝑅,1

(22)

𝑣 , 𝛷𝑣 , and 𝜙𝑣 are
the initial formulation of inequality matrices, 𝛷1,1
1,2
1
performed with a feasibility check during the mp programming solution
development. Now, a subset of available information 𝜃̄1 can be used to
determine feasibility such that the inequality constraints corresponding
to a critical region are satisfied. Consequently, this feasibility check
would ensure that the optimal solution might lie in this critical region.
On the other hand, if the 𝜃̄1 value violates the inequality constraints
corresponding to a critical region, then this would suggest that the
optimal solution will not lie in the critical region. This initial check
can help reduce the possible number of critical regions to 𝑛∗𝐶𝑅,1 , less
than or equal to 𝑛𝐶𝑅,1 , that have to be accounted for in simultaneous
solution for IF-mpDiMPC to obtain the optimal control inputs.
The aforementioned procedure is then followed for all the explicitly
generated expressions through mp programming of the control law for
all 𝑀 local controllers. For each local controller, the subset of the
feasible critical regions 𝑛∗𝐶𝑅,𝑖 ≤ 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑖 , ∀𝑖 ∈ 1, 2, 3, … , 𝑀 are identified.
Consequently, the number of times the simultaneous equations that
should be solved for the overall system reduces to:

Algorithm 2 IF-mpDiMPC algorithm
Require: x(𝑘)
𝜃̄ = x(𝑘)
for 𝐿1 = 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑛𝐶𝑅,1 do ⊳ 𝐿1 , ..., 𝐿𝑀 are indices of critical regions for
subsystems 1 through 𝑀
for 𝐿2 = 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑛𝐶𝑅,2 do
.
for 𝐿𝑖 = 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑖 do
.
for 𝐿𝑀 = 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑀 do
Simultaneously solve the equations,
𝐿 ̄
𝐿 ̄
𝐿 ̄
𝐿
̄
U = 𝑔1 1 (𝜃),
U = 𝑔2 2 (𝜃),
..., U = 𝑔𝑖 𝑖 (𝜃),
..., U = 𝑔𝑀𝑀 (𝜃)
end for
⊳ 𝑀 𝑡ℎ 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
.
end for
⊳ 𝑖𝑡ℎ 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
.
end for
⊳ 2𝑛𝑑 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
end for
⊳ 1𝑠𝑡 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
U∗ (𝑘) = U
⊳ Optimal control solution at time step k

𝑛∗𝐶𝑅,1 × 𝑛∗𝐶𝑅,2 × ⋯ × 𝑛∗𝐶𝑅,𝑀 ≤ 𝑛𝐶𝑅,1 × 𝑛𝐶𝑅,2 × ⋯ × 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑀

(23)

The check for feasibility for the set of inequalities in the 𝑣th critical
region for each 𝑖th controller can be found by solving the following
linear programming (LP) problem with a dummy objective:
ℎ∗1,𝑣 = min 0
𝐕̄ 1

(24)

𝑣 ̄
𝑣 ̄
s.t. 𝛷1,2
𝐕1 ≤ 𝜙𝑣1 − 𝛷1,1
𝜃1

∑
Note that IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5 requires solving 𝑀
𝑖=1 𝑛CR,𝑖 LPs of relatively
smaller size for feasibility checks based on Eq. (24), which adds to the
computational costs. However, these LPs are computationally inexpensive and enable the early elimination of infeasible regions. As a result,
the total computation cost is reduced compared to solving the original IF-mpDiMPC formulation directly. The psuedocode to implement
IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5 is provided in Algorithm 3.

Solving the affine functions simultaneously for all possible combinations of critical region spaces results in identifying a single combination
that offers the solution to the system of linear equations. This solution
corresponds to the optimal control input vector. In cases where multiple feasible solutions exist (because of overlapping critical regions),
i.e., more than one combination satisfies the system of linear equations,
the solution that minimizes the objective function in the OCP (refer
to Eq. (15)) is selected as the optimal choice. An important consideration for the practical implementation of the proposed IF-mpDiMPC
approach is the impact of the number of critical regions on the computational complexity of the simultaneous solution step. Specifically,
the simultaneous equations need to be solved 𝑛𝐶𝑅,1 × 𝑛𝐶𝑅,2 × ⋯ × 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑀
times. The active critical region combination is determined conclusively
by solving the simultaneous equations for all possible combinations,
which can be computationally expensive. Hence, the IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5
and IF-mpDiMPC-V2 algorithms are developed to further improve the
computational speed of the IF-mpDiMPC algorithm. The approach is
to reduce the possible combinations of critical regions or the number
of times the simultaneous solutions need to be performed on a set of
critical regions online at a given sample time step.

3.3. IF-mpDiMPC-V2
In the third method, i.e., IF-mpDiMPC-V2, the computational costs
of IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5 are further reduced by exploring only the nearest
neighbors of the optimal critical region solution of the previous sample time step. The developed algorithm is explained in detail in this
subsection.
In practice, the plant states change gradually. Hence, gradual movements in control inputs would be sufficient to steer the plant to its
desired operating condition. Therefore, the control input solution will
likely lie in and around the optimal critical region identified at the
previous sample time step.
Assume the control input solution at (𝑘 − 1)th sample time step is
𝐔∗ (𝑘−1) = [𝐔1 (𝑘−1), 𝐔2 (𝑘−1), … , 𝐔𝑀 (𝑘−1)]. For the 𝑖th local controller
6

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

Algorithm 3 IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5 algorithm

Algorithm 4 IF-mpDiMPC-V2 algorithm

Require: U(𝑘 − 1), x(𝑘) 𝜃̄ = x(𝑘)
⊳ Accumulate 𝑛∗𝐶𝑅,𝑖 for all i local controllers
for 𝑖 = 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑀 do ⊳ Outer loop to generate feasible sets for M local
controllers
𝑁𝐶𝑅,𝑖 = {} ⊳ An empty set to store indices of all feasible critical
regions
for 𝐼𝑖 = 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑛𝐶𝑅,𝑖 do
Formulate LP problem as in eq. (24)
if ℎ∗1,𝐼𝑖 is non empty then
Append 𝐼𝑖 to 𝑁𝐶𝑅,𝑖
end if
end for
end for
for 𝐿1 in 𝑁𝐶𝑅,1 do
⊳ 𝐿1 , ..., 𝐿𝑀 are indices of critical regions for
subsystems 1 through 𝑀
for 𝐿2 in 𝑁𝐶𝑅,2 do
.
for 𝐿𝑖 in 𝑁𝐶𝑅,𝑖 do
.
for 𝐿𝑀 in 𝑁𝐶𝑅,𝑀 do
Simultaneously solve the equations,
𝐿 ̄
𝐿 ̄
𝐿 ̄
𝐿
̄
U∗ = 𝑔1 1 (𝜃),
U∗ = 𝑔2 2 (𝜃),
..., U∗ = 𝑔𝑖 𝑖 (𝜃),
..., U∗ = 𝑔𝑀𝑀 (𝜃)
end for
⊳ 𝑀 𝑡ℎ 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
.
end for
⊳ 𝑖𝑡ℎ 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
.
end for
⊳ 2𝑛𝑑 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
end for
⊳ 1𝑠𝑡 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
U∗ (𝑘) = U∗
⊳ Optimal control solution at time step k

Require: U(𝑘 − 1), x(𝑘) do
for 𝑖 = 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑀 do ⊳ Outer loop to generate feasible sets for M local
controllers
𝑁𝐶𝑅,𝑖 = {}
⊳ An empty set to store indices of all feasible
critical regions
[
Form Unknown parametric vector 𝜃𝑖 = x(𝑘), U1 (𝑘−1), ..., U𝑖−1 (𝑘−
]
1), U𝑖+1 (𝑘 − 1), ..., U𝑀 (𝑘 − 1)
Perform Point Location algorithm and find the optimal critical region 𝑣1 using explict solution of 1𝑠𝑡 local controller and the
unknown parametric vector 𝜃1 .
Form the feasible set 𝑁𝐶𝑅,𝑖 using 𝑣𝑖 and its nearest boundaries.
Thus, 𝑁𝐶𝑅,𝑖 = {𝑣𝑖 , boundaries of𝑣𝑖 }
end for
end do
for 𝐿1 in 𝑁𝐶𝑅,1 do
⊳ 𝐿1 , ..., 𝐿𝑀 are indices of critical regions for
subsystems 1 through 𝑀
for 𝐿2 in 𝑁𝐶𝑅,2 do
.
for 𝐿𝑖 in 𝑁𝐶𝑅,𝑖 do
.
for 𝐿𝑀 in 𝑁𝐶𝑅,𝑀 do
Simultaneously solve the equations,
𝐿
𝐿
𝐿
𝐿
U = 𝑔1 1 ( ̄𝜃), U = 𝑔2 2 ( ̄𝜃), ..., U = 𝑔𝑖 𝑖 ( ̄𝜃), ..., U = 𝑔𝑀𝑀 ( ̄𝜃)
end for
⊳ 𝑀 𝑡ℎ 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
.
end for
⊳ 𝑖𝑡ℎ 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
.
end for
⊳ 2𝑛𝑑 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
end for
⊳ 1𝑠𝑡 𝑓 𝑜𝑟 𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑝
if U not found then
Revert to iterative I-mpDiMPC approach (Algorithm 1) to obtain U
end if
U∗ (𝑘) = U
⊳ Optimal control solution at time step k

at sample time step 𝑘, an unknown parametric vector is formed using
current state information 𝐱(𝑘) given by:
[
𝜃𝑖 = 𝐱(𝑘), 𝐔1 (𝑘 − 1), 𝐔2 (𝑘 − 1), … , 𝐔𝑖−1 (𝑘 − 1),
]
(25)
𝐔𝑖+1 (𝑘 − 1), .., 𝐔𝑀 (𝑘 − 1)

The mp programming explicit expressions of the control law for all
local controllers are an exact reformulation in terms of the states 𝐱(𝑘)
and inputs. Note that this property is not particular to the mpDiMPC
methods but to mpMPC in general (Bemporad et al., 2002; Pappas et al.,
2021). These expressions are the same for both the I-mpDiMPC and IFmpDiMPC algorithms. However, the IF-mpDiMPC algorithms solve the
expressions simultaneously to determine the control inputs instead of
employing a critical region search procedure during online deployment
at each sample time. This does not alter the underlying solution space
or the optimal solutions obtained. Consequently, the stability properties
and theoretical foundations established for the iterative algorithms also
apply to the IF-mpDiMPC approaches. The stability in this context refers
to closed-loop stability based on Lyapunov constraints, as established in
prior works such as Wang and Yang (2022) and Stewart et al. (2010),
which provide the theoretical foundation for the developed algorithms.
Moreover, evaluating the rate of change of the system states based on
input bounds could significantly reduce the number of critical regions
explored, thereby minimizing the number of simultaneous equations in
the IF-mpDiMPCV2 method. This will be an important focus of future
work.

Based on the unknown parametric vector 𝜃𝑖 , a search for the feasible
and valid critical region is conducted and the optimal critical region for
𝑖th local controller is identified. In the next sample time step 𝑘 + 1, a
set consisting of this critical region and its nearest neighbors is formed
and considered for the simultaneous solution for the control inputs
calculation. Note that this set would be smaller than the set considered
for the simultaneous solution, not only in IF-mpDiMPC but also in IFmpDiMPC-V1.5. The pseudo-code for the IF-mpDiMPC-V2 algorithm is
provided in Algorithm 4.
As stated earlier, the IF-mpDiMPC-V2 method involves solving a
system of linear equations derived from a reduced set of neighboring
critical regions from that of the previous time step critical region. If
the control input 𝐔 does not fall within the space defined by these
neighboring critical regions, there will be no corresponding linear
equations to solve and hence will not yield a solution. This situation
arises because the reduced set of critical regions may not encompass
the optimal feasible solution for 𝐔, particularly when the state lies
outside these predefined regions at the current sample time. In this
case, the algorithm reverts to the (iterative) I-mpDiMPC method (see
Section 2.4). This ensures convergence to the optimal solution or early
termination at the latest sub-optimal solution if the sample time is
completed, bounding the worst-case execution time of IF-mpDiMPCV2 by that of the time needed to both attempt IF-mpDiMPC-V2 and
arrive at a solution through I-mpDiMPC if the former fails to find the
solution. Future research could explore alternative fallback strategies
for large-scale systems. Fig. 1 describes the offline and online solution
procedures for the developed IF-mpDiMPC, IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5, and
IF-mpDiMPC-V2 algorithms.

4. Case studies
To evaluate the performance and general applicability of the developed IF-mpDiMPC methods, a series of random plants are used.
This approach is inspired by the methodology presented in Wang and
Yang (2022) on (iterative) DiMPC. All the IF-mpDiMPC methods are
implemented on systems consisting of 𝑀 ∈ [2, 3, 4, 5] subsystems. Each
subsystem is assumed to be composed of a plant with two states and
7

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

Fig. 1. Flowchart of the developed IF-mpDiMPC, IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5, and IF-mpDiMPC-V2 algorithms.

one input (𝑛𝑥,𝑖 = 2, 𝑛𝑢,𝑖 = 1, ∀𝑖 ∈ 1 ∶ 𝑀). Each element of state
matrix 𝐴𝑖 and input matrix 𝐵𝑖,𝑗 is randomly chosen from the interval
[−1, 1]. The coupling between subsystems is inherent in the structure of
the randomly generated plants, specifically in the 𝐵𝑖,𝑗 matrices. Also,
the states are assumed to be upper bounded by a random number
from the interval [10, 100] and lower bounded by a number chosen
from the interval [−100, −10]. Similarly, the upper bound of inputs is
chosen from the interval [1, 5] and the lower bound is chosen from the

interval [−5, −1]. The prediction horizon length is assumed to equal the
control horizon length for all local controllers and is set to 3 in this
work. 100 random controllable plants are created for each case study
of 𝑀 ∈ [2, 3, 4, 5] with dynamic matrices and initial conditions chosen
randomly within the aforementioned bounds. For example, a random
plant with 2 subsystems is:
𝐱1 (𝑘 + 1) = 𝐴1 𝐱1 (𝑘) + 𝐵1,1 𝑢1 (𝑘) + 𝐵1,2 𝑢2 (𝑘)
𝐱2 (𝑘 + 1) = 𝐴2 𝐱2 (𝑘) + 𝐵2,1 𝑢1 (𝑘) + 𝐵2,2 𝑢2 (𝑘)
8

(26)

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

comparison purposes) at time 0 s. For the concise representation of
the results, only a single output value, the sum of all states for each
subsystem, is shown. For example, in case of 𝑀 = 2 subsystems (Fig.
3), wherein each subsystem controller has 2 states (𝐱1 ∈ R2 , and 𝐱2 ∈
R2 ), the outputs 𝑦1 and 𝑦2 are the element-wise summations of the
state vectors 𝐱1 and 𝐱2 , respectively. While this approach simplifies
the presentation of results across the randomly generated plant models,
in physical systems, summing different state variables may not always
have a meaningful interpretation. The focus here is on demonstrating
the overall dynamic behavior and convergence of the subsystems under
different control strategies. To ensure that the control performance
results of DiMPC and I-mpDiMPC match with those of the developed
IF-mpDiMPC algorithms, a low value of 10−8 is considered for the
error tolerance 𝜖 (see Algorithm 1). Also, the maximum number of
allowable intermediate iterations 𝑝𝑚𝑎𝑥 = 100. The maximum cap of
100 intermediate iterations is set as a general upper limit for all plants
collectively and is not related to the number of plants. In this study,
all the developed IF-mpDiMPC methods are tested independently for
each of the 100 plants. The closed-loop simulation results for the 2subsystem case (see Fig. 3) demonstrate that all controllers achieve
centralized-like performance due to the low value of 𝜖. The closedloop simulation results representing the control performance of the 3–5
subsystem cases also demonstrate centralized-like performance and can
be found in the supplementary material. The controllers successfully
steer random initial conditions to equilibrium within approximately 30
s, despite the randomly selected plant dynamics. While iterative approaches like DiMPC and I-mpDiMPC require more iterations and incur
higher communication and computational costs to achieve plantwide
optimality, the proposed IF-mpDiMPC method achieves similar performance efficiently, reducing both communication and computational
overhead by simultaneously solving the explicitly generated control law
expressions of the different local controllers.

Fig. 2. The number of critical regions for different number of subsystems on a log scale.
Note that the number of critical regions remains the same for all the mp programming
DiMPC solution approaches, which differ only in the calculation method of optimal
control inputs.

[
]
[
]
0.1645
0.7399
−0.3639
where, 𝐱1 ∈ R2 , 𝐱2 ∈ R2 , 𝐴1 =
, 𝐵1,1 =
,
0.0815 −0.4704
−0.7616
[
]
[
]
[
]
0.8797
−0.0411 0.0894
0.0878
𝐵1,2 =
, 𝐴2 =
, 𝐵2,1 =
, and 𝐵2,2 =
0.2911
0.2786
0.2946
0.4421
[
]
0.0450
. Further, the state and input dynamic vectors are bounded as
0.9874
follows:
[
]
[
]
−63.5878
29.6809
≤ 𝐱1 ≤
−59.6464
19.5218
[
]
[
]
−67.0765
19.8728
≤ 𝐱2 ≤
(27)
−31.2846
15.7232
−1.2686 ≤ 𝑢1 ≤ 3.5116
−1.1090 ≤ 𝑢2 ≤ 4.0879

5.2. Comparison of computational performance

5. Results and discussion

The computational performance of the different controllers and for
the different number of subsystem cases is shown in Figs. 4.1 The
computation time represents the average time the numerical simulation
takes from the initial sample time instant to that where all the plant
states reach 0.02% of their equilibrium value. The equilibrium values
refer to the steady-state values that the plant states achieve at the end of
the closed-loop simulation time span. This convergence highlights the
equal effectiveness of the developed IF-mpDiMPC methods compared to
the conventional I-mpDiMPC and MPC schemes across all subsystems.
Note that the IF-mpDiMPC approach solves a system of simultaneous
equations at each time step. As a result, the overall computation time
is linearly proportional to the chosen control simulation time, which
in this study is 100 s with a 1 s time step. It can be observed that
all the controllers show an increasing trend in computation time with
increase in the number of subsystems. In the case of IF-mpDiMPC, the
computation time rises exponentially with the increase in the number of
subsystems. Hence, solving IF-mpDiMPC for 4 and 5 subsystems proved
to be computationally prohibitively expensive. This underscores the
need for more efficient algorithms like IF-mpDiMPC-V2 when dealing
with larger, more complex systems. The mean computation time for
various control architectures and the percentage change relative to
DiMPC are shown in Table 1. The mean values of both IF-mpDiMPC
and IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5 architectures are more than that of I-mpDiMPC
for all the number of subsystem cases. However, the computation time
of IF-mpDiMPC-V2 is less than that of I-mpDiMPC, again for all number
of subsystem cases. Although the simultaneous solution approach of
IF-mpDiMPC and IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5 is computationally expensive, for

In this section, the numerical simulation results of the random
plants under the developed IF-mpDiMPC controllers are compared in
terms of trade-offs between computational efficiency and communication load with the existing DiMPC approaches (Stewart et al., 2010;
Wang and Yang, 2022) and I-mpDiMPC (Saini et al., 2023) controllers.
All simulations are performed on a desktop computer with Intel(R)
Core(TM) i7-10700 CPU @ 2.90 GHz processor, 16 GB RAM, and
512 GB SSD. The quadratic programming (QP) problems in the DiMPC
OCP are solved using the IBM ILOG CPLEX (Cplex, 2009) solver. For
the explicit multiparametric quadratic programming (mpQP) solutions
required in I-mpDiMPC and all versions of IF-mpDiMPC, the POP
Toolbox (Oberdieck et al., 2016) is employed. Also, default conditions
have been retained while using the CPLEX QP solver and POP toolbox
while simulating all case studies. Initially, random plants as described
in Section 4 are generated. Subsequently, the explicit solutions of each
local I-mpDiMPC controller in all random plants are calculated. The
boundaries of each critical region are also determined offline and stored
(for use during online deployment). Fig. 2 shows the distribution of the
total number of critical regions of all the local controllers combined for
the different subsystem cases. Note that the number of critical regions
remains the same for all mp programming approaches, I-mpDiMPC,
IF-mpDiMPC, IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5, and IF-mpDiMPC-V2, as only the calculation of the optimal control input solutions from the critical regions
differ in these algorithms. It can be observed that the number of critical
regions increases exponentially with the number of systems.
5.1. Simulations of control performance
The random plants are simulated for a time duration of 100 s with
random initial conditions (kept the same for all solution algorithms for

1
* and ** indicate the results of the existing approaches in all comparison
figures and tables.

9

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.
Table 1
Average computation times (in seconds) and percentage change relative to DiMPC.
Architecture

DiMPC∗
I-mpDiMPC∗∗
IF-mpDiMPC
IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5
IF-mpDiMPC-V2

2

3

4

5

Time (s)

Δ%

Time (s)

Δ%

Time (s)

Δ%

Time (s)

Δ%

9.914
0.074
0.354
0.617
0.205

–
−99.25%
−96.43%
−93.78%
−97.93%

24.884
0.515
167.218
3.174
0.511

–
−97.93%
+572.08%
−87.24%
−97.95%

54.497
3.254
–
12.374
0.758

–
−94.02%
–
−77.29%
−98.61%

77.585
12.777
–
67.993
2.936

–
−83.53%
–
−12.38%
−96.21%

Table 2
Maximal and average number of iterations under DiMPC (and I-mpDiMPC).
No. of Subsystems

Maximal Iteration

Average Iteration

2
3
4
5

38
62
100
100

19.99
33.97
49.86
66.05

subsystems results in an increase in both the maximum and average
number of iterations. As the number of subsystems increases, obtaining
a plantwide optimum through the DiMPC solution algorithm results
in an increased number of intermediate iterations. The trend agrees
with the results of Wang and Yang (2022), wherein the authors have
compared the performance of DiMPC with their own improved iterative
solution method.
To address the communication burden of different control architectures, the instances of data transfer between subsystems for all methods
are analyzed. Fig. 5 illustrates this comparison in both linear and logarithmic scales. The developed iteration-free methods (IF-mpDiMPC, IFmpDiMPC-V1.5, and IF-mpDiMPC-V2) demonstrate significantly fewer
instances of data transfer compared to the iterative methods (DiMPC
and I-mpDiMPC), particularly as the number of subsystems increases.
For iterative methods, the number of data transfers directly corresponds
to the number of intermediate iterations required to converge, as
reported in Table 2. In contrast, iteration-free methods require only a
single instance of data transfer per time step (100 transfer instances
for the entire simulation of 100 time steps), regardless of the number of
subsystems. The black and diamond markers represent rare occurrences
of the failure of the IF-mpDiMPC-V2 method, in which case the solution algorithm resorts back to I-mpDiMPC during certain control time
steps. This substantial reduction in data transfer instances translates to
decreased network traffic and lowered susceptibility to communicationrelated issues. While this analysis does not account for all potential
sources of communication delay, it demonstrates how the proposed
iteration-free methods significantly reduce the communication load,
addressing a key motivation of this work.

Fig. 3. Controller performance for 2 subsystems. (a) Outputs of each subsystem. (b)
Applied inputs to achieve the given outputs. The solid and dashed lines represent two
random experimental runs in the output and input plots for visualization purposes.

6. Conclusions
the case studies presented in the paper, it helps reduce communication
load significantly compared to I-mpDiMPC as the information between
the local controllers is exchanged only once per sample time. Note that
an increase in the number of iterations of I-mpDiMPC with increased
communication load will also delay control input calculation, which is
not accounted for in the numerical simulation study. The IF-mpDiMPCV2 algorithm performs the best, not only in terms of the communication
load reduction but also in the computation time reduction.

Novel iteration-free DiMPC algorithms were developed based on mp
programming, IF-mpDiMPC, IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5, and IF-mpDiMPC-V2.
The communication and computational performances of the developed
algorithms were studied and compared against their iterative counterparts. Randomly generated plants with different numbers of subsystems
were used to perform numerical simulation studies of the closed-loop
operation under the developed controllers. All the controllers were
tuned to obtain the centralized-like output tracking performance for
comparison purposes. In IF-mpDiMPC, the explicitly generated solutions of all the local controllers were solved simultaneously to obtain
the control inputs at each sample time step. This method was improved
in IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5 by performing feasibility checks on the explicitly
generated solutions in terms of constraint satisfaction, thereby reducing the set of equations that should be considered for simultaneous
solutions online. This method was improved further in IF-mpDiMPCV2 by only considering the previous sample time step solution and its

5.3. Comparison of communication performance
The maximum number of single sample time step intermediate
iterations for the entire simulation time period for each experiment
is recorded. Further, maximum and average values of all the maximum iteration numbers for DiMPC and I-mpDiMPC are determined
and listed in Table 2. As can be seen, an increase in the number of
10

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

Fig. 4. Computation times in log scale for the different DiMPC control architectures. Figure 4 in the supplementary material presents the same data on a linear scale for comparison.

Fig. 5. Number of instances of data transfer in log scale for the different DiMPC control architectures for the entire simulation of 100-time steps. Figure 7 in the supplementary
material presents the same data on a linear scale for comparison.

nearest neighbors for the simultaneous solution online. IF-mpDiMPC
and IF-mpDiMPC-V1.5 needed more time to solve and obtain the
solution compared to the iterative I-mpDiMPC algorithm for all the
number of subsystem cases as the time required to solve all the explicitly generated equations exceeded that of the iterative procedure
convergence. IF-mpDiMPC-V2, on the other hand, performed the best
in terms of the computation time among all the controllers and for all
the number of subsystem cases due to the reduced set of equations
for simultaneous solutions. Furthermore, the developed iteration-free
controllers significantly reduced the communication burden, especially
as system complexity increased, by requiring only a single exchange of
information between local controllers at each sample time, in contrast
to the multiple exchanges typical of iterative approaches. This streamlined data exchange improved the robustness of the control network in
dealing with communication challenges.
A limitation of this work is the increased computational cost associated with the developed IF-mpDiMPC methods. This cost rises with
the number of critical regions, which increases as the states, inputs,
prediction horizon, and control horizon increase. Note that this issue
is not particular to the developed methods but to mp programming
or mpMPC in general (Ferreau et al., 2008). While IF-mpDiMPC-V2
partially mitigates this by checking only the current and neighboring
critical regions, costs can still rise if the solution lies outside these areas.
Additionally, this study has not yet explored worst-case scenarios, as
the focus was on optimizing performance under nominal conditions.
Also, while the current method was developed for systems with linear
dynamics, extending the IF-mpDiMPC methods to nonlinear systems,
especially those when linearized for MPC, do not yield satisfactory
control performance, remains an important challenge. Addressing the
optimal control of nonlinear plants with coupling would require the development of advanced mp programming algorithms capable of solving

nonlinear OCPs effectively. Future research could extend these methods
to assess robustness and stability in such cases.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Radhe S.T. Saini: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Software, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation. Parth R. Brahmbhatt: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Software, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data
curation. Styliani Avraamidou: Writing – review & editing, Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Methodology, Investigation, Formal
analysis, Conceptualization. Hari S. Ganesh: Writing – review & editing, Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Methodology, Investigation,
Formal analysis, Conceptualization.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
influence the work reported in this paper.
Appendix A. Supplementary data
Supplementary material related to this article can be found online
at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compchemeng.2025.109169.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.

11

Computers and Chemical Engineering 200 (2025) 109169

R.S.T. Saini et al.

References

Negenborn, R.R., Maestre, J.M., 2014. Distributed model predictive control: An
overview and roadmap of future research opportunities. IEEE Control Syst. Mag.
34 (4), 87–97.
Oberdieck, R., Diangelakis, N.A., Papathanasiou, M.M., Nascu, I., Pistikopoulos, E.N.,
2016. Pop–parametric optimization toolbox. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 55 (33),
8979–8991.
Pappas, I., Kenefake, D., Burnak, B., Avraamidou, S., Ganesh, H.S., Katz, J., Diangelakis, N.A., Pistikopoulos, E.N., 2021. Multiparametric programming in process
systems engineering: Recent developments and path forward. Front. Chem. Eng. 2,
620168.
Pistikopoulos, E.N., Diangelakis, N.A., Oberdieck, R., Papathanasiou, M.M., Nascu, I.,
Sun, M., 2015. PAROC—An integrated framework and software platform for the
optimisation and advanced model-based control of process systems. Chem. Eng. Sci.
136, 115–138.
Pistikopoulos, E.N., Dua, V., Bozinis, N.A., Bemporad, A., Morari, M., 2002. On-line
optimization via off-line parametric optimization tools. Comput. Chem. Eng. 26
(2), 175–185.
Qin, S.J., Badgwell, T.A., 1997. An overview of industrial model predictive control
technology. In: AIche Symposium Series. vol. 93, (316), New York, NY: American
Institute of Chemical Engineers, 1971-c2002, pp. 232–256.
Rawlings, J.B., Mayne, D.Q., Diehl, M., 2017. Model Predictive Control: Theory,
Computation, and Design. vol. 2, Nob Hill Publishing Madison, WI.
Richards, A., How, J.P., 2007. Robust distributed model predictive control. Internat. J.
Control 80 (9), 1517–1531.
Saini, R.S., Pappas, I., Avraamidou, S., Ganesh, H.S., 2023. Noncooperative distributed
model predictive control: A multiparametric programming approach. Ind. Eng.
Chem. Res..
Siljak, D.D., 1991. Decentralized Control of Complex Systems. Academic Press, New
York, USA.
Stewart, B.T., Venkat, A.N., Rawlings, J.B., Wright, S.J., Pannocchia, G., 2010.
Cooperative distributed model predictive control. Systems Control Lett. 59 (8),
460–469.
Trodden, P.A., Maestre, J.M., 2017. Distributed predictive control with minimization
of mutual disturbances. Automatica 77, 31–43.
Venkat, A.N., Rawlings, J.B., Wright, S.J., 2007. Distributed model predictive control
of large-scale systems. In: Assessment and Future Directions of Nonlinear Model
Predictive Control. Springer, pp. 591–605.
Wang, J., Yang, Y., 2022. An improved iterative solution for cooperative distributed
MPC. Automatica 140, 110155.
Wegstein, J.H., 1958. Accelerating convergence of iterative processes. Commun. ACM
1 (6), 9–13.
Wu, L., Yin, X., Pan, L., Liu, J., 2023. Distributed economic predictive control of
integrated energy systems for enhanced synergy and grid response: A decomposition
and cooperation strategy. Appl. Energy 349, 121627.
Zhu, Z., Guan, G., Wang, K., 2023. Distributed model predictive control based on
the alternating direction method of multipliers for branching open canal irrigation
systems. Agricult. Water. Manag. 285, 108372.

Avraamidou, S., Pistikopoulos, E.N., 2017. A multi-parametric bi-level optimization
strategy for hierarchical model predictive control. In: Computer Aided Chemical
Engineering. vol. 40, Elsevier, pp. 1591–1596.
Bemporad, A., Morari, M., Dua, V., Pistikopoulos, E.N., 2002. The explicit linear
quadratic regulator for constrained systems. Automatica 38 (1), 3–20.
Camponogara, E., Jia, D., Krogh, B.H., Talukdar, S., 2002. Distributed model predictive
control. IEEE Control Syst. Mag. 22 (1), 44–52.
Chen, W., et al., 2016. Improved distributed model predictive control with control
planning set. J. Control Sci. Eng. 2016.
Christofides, P.D., Scattolini, R., de la Pena, D.M., Liu, J., 2013. Distributed model
predictive control: A tutorial review and future research directions. Comput. Chem.
Eng. 51, 21–41.
Cplex, I.I., 2009. V12. 1: User’s manual for CPLEX. Int. Bus. Mach. Corp. 46 (53), 157.
Cui, H., Jacobsen, E.W., 2002. Performance limitations in decentralized control. J.
Process Control 12 (4), 485–494.
Cutler, C.R., Ramaker, B.L., 1980. Dynamic matrix control?? A computer control
algorithm. In: Joint Automatic Control Conference. (17), p. 72.
Diangelakis, N.A., Avraamidou, S., Pistikopoulos, E.N., 2016. Decentralized multiparametric model predictive control for domestic combined heat and power systems.
Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 55, 3313–3326.
Farina, M., Scattolini, R., 2011. Distributed non-cooperative MPC with neighbor-toneighbor communication. IFAC Proc. Vol. 44 (1), 404–409.
Farina, M., Scattolini, R., 2012. Distributed predictive control: A non-cooperative
algorithm with neighbor-to-neighbor communication for linear systems. Automatica
48 (6), 1088–1096.
Feng, Y., Yu, S., Chen, H., Li, Y., Shi, S., Yu, J., Chen, H., 2023. Distributed MPC of
vehicle platoons with guaranteed consensus and string stability. Sci. Rep. 13 (1),
10396.
Ferramosca, A., Limón, D., Alvarado, I., Camacho, E.F., 2013. Cooperative distributed
MPC for tracking. Automatica 49 (4), 906–914.
Ferreau, H.J., Bock, H.G., Diehl, M., 2008. An online active set strategy to overcome
the limitations of explicit MPC. Int. J. Robust Nonlinear Control.: IFAC- Affil. J.
18 (8), 816–830.
Kirubakaran, V., Radhakrishnan, T., Sivakumaran, N., 2014. Distributed multiparametric model predictive control design for a quadruple tank process. Measurement 47,
841–854.
Langner, F., Wang, W., Frahm, M., Hagenmeyer, V., 2024. Model predictive control of distributed energy resources in residential buildings considering forecast
uncertainties. Energy Build. 303, 113753.
Lu, P., Zhang, N., Ye, L., Du, E., Kang, C., 2024. Advances in model predictive control
for large-scale wind power integration in power systems: A comprehensive review.
Adv. Appl. Energy 100177.
Maciejowski, J., 2002. Predictive Control: With Constraints. Prentice Hall.
Morari, M., Lee, J.H., 1999. Model predictive control: past, present and future. Comput.
Chem. Eng. 23 (4–5), 667–682.

12

